---
layout: post
title:  "Assignment 04: Digital Fabrication Recitation"
date:   2023-10-09 12:51:25 +0200
categories: jekyll update
---

### **Digital Fabrication Recitation**  

#### 1. Capabilities

Digital fabrication offers the opportunity to design something, whatever it might be, digitally, and then have it made into a physical object. An aspect that I really like about it, is that you can recreate an idea physically without the need for personal skills or exact craftsmanship/hand work. I find that the accuracy and relative ease with which one can create almost anything, is absolutely fantastic. In my opinion, this technology lends a helping hand to those who lack the means to bring their ideas to life, as well as a range of additional possibilities to those who also like to make things using more conventional methods. It kind of lowers the bar and makes creation more accessible (to the extent that 3D printers and laser cutters are publicly available and/or affordable).
The possibilities offered by 3D printing range from making geometrical shapes that are difficult or even impossible with conventional methods, to making products with embedded moving parts. A wrench is a typical example of the latter. Through 3D printing it is possible to make a working wrench without the need for any assembly. The further possibilities with this technology are limited only by our human imagination. Another good side about 3D printing is that you can model and produce “anything” relatively cheap, even if the product is a one-time thing. Traditionally, stuff made from plastic would be cast, which is expensive and unfeasible for low quantities. Casting is fine for mass production, and at a certain point (a certain production quantity) it is still the cheaper method. However, rapidly producing plastic prototypes has never been easier or faster than it is now, because of 3D printing. Unless you are planning to make hundreds* of a thing, you are better off with 3D printing, and it is only getting cheaper and faster. 
(*Disclaimer: This number (“hundreds”) is bs, and the actual quantity where casting becomes cheaper than printing depends on the size and complexity of what you are making...)

#### 2. Digital-physical relationship w/ practical examples

The relationship between the digital and the physical is a difficult and complex thing to describe concisely. However, I think that one very relevant aspect here is the transition from theoretical to practical (only slightly different from digital/physical). Transforming digital models into real objects, has made me realize a few key things. Two dimensional objects don’t exist in the real world, for example. Neither does perfect accuracy. Therefore, calculating margins and tolerances in a suitable manner is important in order to make functional products. Depending on the manufacturing technique and/or choice of material, different tolerances will be preferred and/or necessary. 
There are also a few fall pits on the way between digital and physical. There is most often at least one step in between modeling and printing/cutting/milling/whatever. For instance, in 3D printing it is important to make sure that the slicer program does what you intend it to do. The settings that you apply to the 3D printer, can have a great impact on the end result. Personally, I have rarely considered how dense or strong a certain component needs to be when modeling. The thought still usually doesn’t cross my mind until after at least one full iteration of the entire process, i.e. after seeing and interacting with the physical object. And then usually only if something bends or breaks. The threshold for printing is most often low enough that this philosophy is completely fine. 
The texture on the surface of a 3D printed object might be relevant for whatever purpose the object has (e.g. if the object is supposed to glide easily on the surface of another object), and this is something that one might not consider when 3D printing. You can always try to tweak settings in the slicer program, but unless you somehow add texture to your digital model, there will be a difference between the model and physical object. Whether this is significant or not, will of course depend on other things. Sometimes a print isn’t perfect, and the surface ends up looking and feeling quite rough. This is a regular occurrence, especially underneath an object or where supports have been in play. In addition to the desired level of friction between separate parts, this also affects the aesthetic of the object. 
Laser cutting and CNC milling are both less “plug and play” than 3D printing, but both are getting more and more simple and accessible. For subtractive manufacturing processes such as these, one needs to consider the width of the laser beam, the CNC tool, or similar. If you use a saw without considering the width of the saw blade or which side of the pencil mark you are cutting on, the result will obviously deviate from your intention. In the same way, not taking the laser beam’s width into account will result in parts with wrong measurements. Neglecting the width of the laser beam would for example result in a “box with finger joints” (from assignment 3) with too loose finger joints, which would make it impossible to assemble the box properly. 
The physical nature of a laser cutter limits the user to only 2 dimensions “of importance”, which means that 3 dimensional shapes can not be made from one and the same part. Another thing that is important when going from digital model to laser cut object, is knowing and/or choosing the material. Both the attributes of the material and the thickness are important things to consider when setting up the machine. 

#### 3. Limitations of digital design

Compared to traditional carpentry (also applicable for metal work to a large degree), digital design is in a way simpler, but less “personal”. When doing hand work directly on a work piece, you have to take into account the unique details of the material. For example, a wood knot in the wrong place could be devastating to the end result if ignored. Digital manufacturing such as laser cutting, usually prerequisites a homogenous and close to perfect raw material, whereas a traditional carpenter might try to enhance/highlight the unique features in a given piece of wood. The philosophies are generally quite different, but each have their uses and benefits.

#### 4. Problem solving

My discussion here is closely related to what I mentioned earlier, in the “Digital/physical” part. In the process of 3D printing a simple fidget spinner, I encountered the problem of making separate parts fit nicely together. In this case, a bearing was meant to fit snugly in a 3D printed fidget spinner body. However, achieving a perfect fit proved to be difficult and required some trial and error. To make parts fit as tightly (or loosely) as intended, one needs to know the acceptable margins of (in)accuracy, and to be able to manufacture parts within these tolerances. To fit the bearing, I first tried designing a hole that was 0.5mm larger than the bearing’s outside diameter. This resulted in a looser fit than desired. In the next iteration I used a margin of 0.25mm, and the result was close to perfect. For many applications, I believe trial and error (iterative manufacturing) is unavoidable. The snugness of a fit depends not only on the margin of error in the 3D print, but also on the size of the contact area, and the hardness and stiffness/flexibility of the materials, among other things. I strongly believe that the simplest way of determining the optimal tolerance is through trial and error. It is at the very least the most practically feasible method. 
