---
layout: post
title:  "Assignment 01: CAD Model"
date:   2023-09-17 15:00:00 +0200
categories: jekyll update
---

### **Robotic hand**  
For my final project, that is a robotic hand, I will be required to 3D print a bunch of separate parts. I have modeled the (currently envisioned version of my) robotic hand using Fusion360. Assembling all the separate parts (in Fusion) proved to be a challenge, but in the end I seem to have managed to pull it off. 

#### 1. What different parts does my design require?  
- Palm	
- Fingers, mostly consisting of 3 links (only 2 for the thumb)
-	Actuation mechanism

#### 2. What manufacturing processes does my design require?  
-	3D Printing should cover my manufacturing needs, as far as I can tell at this point. 

#### 3. Does my project need any external components?
- For now I haven't finalized all the details, so I'm not quite sure what will be needed. However, it is likely that some ready-made parts, such as spiral springs and fasteners, will be utilized.

#### 4. How does the mechanical movement work?
- Finger actuation: Figuring out how my finger actuation is going to function is priority number one, but nothing is set in stone yet. Thread/wire actuation seems probable. 
- Finger movement: The joints of the fingers will be codependent (either every joint bends or no joint bends). The thumb will have one less link and joint than the other digits.
- Wrist rotation: Any movement beyond bending/curling of fingers is considered non-vital, and therefore excluded from my design at this point.


